README.md, before:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

HTrace
======
HTrace is a tracing framework for use with distributed systems.  See the
documentation at [src/main/site/markdown/index.md] or at
http://htrace.incubator.apache.org for more details.

For help on building the software, see [BUILDING.txt].

Commit message:

HTRACE-350. Add a developer guide (Colin Patrick McCabe via iwasakims)

README.md, after:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

HTrace
======
[HTrace](http://htrace.incubator.apache.org) is a tracing framework for use
with distributed systems.

For help on building the software, see [BUILDING.txt](./BUILDING.txt).

For details about integrating HTrace into an application, see the [developer
guide](./src/main/site/markdown/developer_guide.md)

See the [release guide](./src/main/site/markdown/building.md) for
information about making an HTrace release.
